PR for SRVLOGIC-436: Document "Global configuration settings" section in the OSL docs. (#85578)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-logic-global-config-customization.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:

> // * serverless-logic/serverless-logic-global-config-settings

Author: I have included the properties.

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="serverless-logic-global-config-customization_{context}"]
= Customization of global configurations

> After installing the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName}, you can access the `sonataflow-operator-controllers-config` ConfigMap file in the `sonataflow-operator-system` namespace. This configuration file defines how the operator behaves when it creates new resources in the cluster. However, changes to this configuration will not affect resources that already exist. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName}, you can access the `logic-operator-rhel8-controllers-config` ConfigMap file in the `openshift-serverless-logic` namespace. This configuration file defines how the operator behaves when it creates new resources in the cluster. However, changes to this configuration will not affect resources that already exist. 
```

You can modify any of the options within the `controllers_cfg.yaml` key in the `ConfigMap`. 

The following table outlines all the available global configuration options:

[cols=3*,options="header"]
|===
|Configuration key
|Default value
|Description

|`defaultPvcKanikoSize`
|`1Gi`
|The default size of Kaniko PVC when using the internal {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} builder manager.

|`healthFailureThresholdDevMode`
|`50`
|How much time (in seconds) to wait for a devmode workflow to start. This information is used for the controller manager to create new devmode containers and setup the healthcheck probes.

|`kanikoDefaultWarmerImageTag`
|`gcr.io/kaniko-project/warmer:v1.9.0`
|Default image used internally by the Operator Managed Kaniko builder to create the warmup pods.

|`kanikoExecutorImageTag`
|`gcr.io/kaniko-project/executor:v1.9.0`
|Default image used internally by the Operator Managed Kaniko builder to create the executor pods.

|`jobsServicePostgreSQLImageTag`

> |empty

Reviewer: Value can be found in the handover email.

> |empty

Reviewer 2: The table will probably look horrible with such long image names in the rows, but I think we should include the values.
Because, in the end, this is what the operator will use by default.

> |empty

Author: Can you please tell me the values here? As I did not receive any handover email.

> |empty

Reviewer 2: Hi @kaldesai these are the default values:

jobsServicePostgreSQLImageTag: registry.redhat.io/openshift-serverless-1/logic-jobs-service-postgresql-rhel8:1.35.0

jobsServiceEphemeralImageTag: registry.redhat.io/openshift-serverless-1/logic-jobs-service-ephemeral-rhel8:1.35.0

dataIndexPostgreSQLImageTag: registry.redhat.io/openshift-serverless-1/logic-data-index-postgresql-rhel8:1.35.0

dataIndexEphemeralImageTag: registry.redhat.io/openshift-serverless-1/logic-data-index-ephemeral-rhel8:1.35.0

sonataFlowBaseBuilderImageTag: registry.redhat.io/openshift-serverless-1/logic-swf-builder-rhel8:1.35.0

sonataFlowDevModeImageTag: registry.redhat.io/openshift-serverless-1/logic-swf-devmode-rhel8:1.35.0

My suggestion here is to  use a variable with the current version number `versionNumber` (I think it should be defined somewhere already, if not, we can add it), and then, add the values like this:

registry.redhat.io/openshift-serverless-1/logic-swf-devmode-rhel8:**{versionNumber}**

Because the image numbers change on every new release. So, in the next release, the images will be 1.36.0 instead of 1.35.0. But all the rest of the names we keep the same.

> |empty

Author: Thank you for providing the default values. I was able to find the **{ServerlessProductVersion}** attribute so I replaced it and now I have added the default values.

|`dataIndexEphemeralImageTag`
|empty
|The Data Index image without persistence to use, if empty, the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} will use the default Apache Community one based on the current {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} version.

|`sonataFlowBaseBuilderImageTag`
|empty
|{ServerlessLogicProductName} base builder image used in the internal Dockerfile to build workflow applications in preview profile. If empty, the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} will use the default Apache Community one based on the current {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} version.

|`sonataFlowDevModeImageTag`
|empty
|The image to use to deploy {ServerlessLogicProductName} workflow images in devmode profile. If empty, the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} will use the default Apache Community one based on the current {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} version.

|`builderConfigMapName`
|`sonataflow-operator-builder-config`
|The default name of the builder configMap in the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} namespace.

|postgreSQLPersistenceExtensions
|next column

> |Quarkus extensions required for workflows persistence. These extensions are used by the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} builder in cases where the workflow being built has configured postgresql persistence. Default values are `io.quarkus:quarkus-agroal:3.8.4.redhat-00002`, `io.quarkus:quarkus-jdbc-postgresql:3.8.4.redhat-00002`, `org.kie:kie-addons-quarkus-persistence-jdbc:9.100.0.redhat-00004`

Reviewer: Versions here are from older build, should be `9.102.redhat-0004` and `3.8.6.redhat-00004`

However as we do CR2 this will change, again consider not including the default value here.

Author: I will remove the default values from here.

[id="serverless-logic-customizing-base-builder-image_{context}"]
== Customizing the base builder image

You can directly change the base builder image in the Dockerfile used by the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName}.

Additionally, you can specify the base builder image in the `SonataFlowPlatform` configuration within the current namespace. This ensures that the specified base image is used exclusively in the given namespace.

.Example of `SonataFlowPlatform` with a custom base builder image:
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
kind: SonataFlowPlatform
metadata:
  name: sonataflow-platform
spec:
  build:
    config:
        baseImage: dev.local/my-workflow-builder:1.0.0
----

Alternatively, you can also modify the base builder image in the global configuration ConfigMap as shown in the following example:

.Example of `ConfigMap` with a custom base builder image:
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
data:
  controllers_cfg.yaml: |
    sonataFlowBaseBuilderImageTag: dev.local/my-workflow-builder:1.0.0
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:

>   name: sonataflow-operator-controllers-config
>   namespace: sonataflow-operator-system

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name: logic-operator-rhel8-controllers-config
  namespace: openshift-serverless-logic
```

----

> Lastly, you can also change this information directly in the global confinguration ConfigMap

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
[id="serverless-logic-global-config-customization_{context}"]
= Customization of global configurations

After installing the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName}, you can access the `logic-operator-rhel8-controllers-config` ConfigMap file in the `openshift-serverless-logic` namespace. This configuration file defines how the operator behaves when it creates new resources in the cluster. However, changes to this configuration will not affect resources that already exist. 

You can modify any of the options within the `controllers_cfg.yaml` key in the `ConfigMap`. 

The following table outlines all the available global configuration options:

[cols=3*,options="header"]
|===
|Configuration key
|Default value
|Description

|`defaultPvcKanikoSize`
|`1Gi`
|The default size of Kaniko PVC when using the internal {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} builder manager.

|`healthFailureThresholdDevMode`
|`50`
|How much time (in seconds) to wait for a devmode workflow to start. This information is used for the controller manager to create new devmode containers and setup the healthcheck probes.

|`kanikoDefaultWarmerImageTag`
|`gcr.io/kaniko-project/warmer:v1.9.0`

> |Default image used internally by the Operator Managed Kaniko builder to create the warmup pods.

Author: I confirmed it is related to the pod name.

|`kanikoExecutorImageTag`
|`gcr.io/kaniko-project/executor:v1.9.0`
|Default image used internally by the Operator Managed Kaniko builder to create the executor pods.

|`jobsServicePostgreSQLImageTag`
|`registry.redhat.io/openshift-serverless-1/logic-jobs-service-postgresql-rhel8:{ServerlessProductVersion}`

> |The Jobs Service image for PostgreSQL to use, if empty, the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} will use the default Apache Community one based on the current {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} version.

Author: Okay. The service name is "Job" so I will capitalize it and keep it as it is.

|`jobsServiceEphemeralImageTag`
|`registry.redhat.io/openshift-serverless-1/logic-jobs-service-ephemeral-rhel8:{ServerlessProductVersion}`

> |The Jobs Service image without persistence to use, if empty, the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} will use the default Apache Community one based on the current {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} version.

Author: Okay! Here "Jobs" is the name of the service so I will keep it as it is.

|`dataIndexPostgreSQLImageTag`
|`registry.redhat.io/openshift-serverless-1/logic-data-index-postgresql-rhel8:{ServerlessProductVersion}`

> |The Data Index image for PostgreSQL to use, if empty, the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} will use the default Apache Community one based on the current {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|The data index image for PostgreSQL to use. If empty, the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} uses the default Apache community image based on the current {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} version.
```

Author: Here "Data Index" is the name of the service so I will keep it as it is. Maybe I should add the word "service" to make it clearer. Rest is incorporated.

|`dataIndexEphemeralImageTag`
|`registry.redhat.io/openshift-serverless-1/logic-data-index-ephemeral-rhel8:{ServerlessProductVersion}`

> |The Data Index image without persistence to use, if empty, the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} will use the default Apache Community one based on the current {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|The data index image without persistence to use. If empty, the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} uses the default Apache community image based on the current {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} version.
```

Author: Here "Data Index" is the name of the service so I will keep it as it is. Maybe I should add the word "service" to make it clearer. Rest is incorporated.

|`sonataFlowBaseBuilderImageTag`
|`registry.redhat.io/openshift-serverless-1/logic-swf-builder-rhel8:{ServerlessProductVersion}`

> |{ServerlessLogicProductName} base builder image used in the internal Dockerfile to build workflow applications in preview profile. If empty, the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} will use the default Apache Community one based on the current {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|{ServerlessLogicProductName} base builder image used in the internal Dockerfile to build workflow applications in preview profile. If empty, the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} uses the default Apache community image based on the current {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} version.
```

|`sonataFlowDevModeImageTag`
|`registry.redhat.io/openshift-serverless-1/logic-swf-devmode-rhel8:{ServerlessProductVersion}`

> |The image to use to deploy {ServerlessLogicProductName} workflow images in devmode profile. If empty, the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} will use the default Apache Community one based on the current {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} version.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|The image to use to deploy {ServerlessLogicProductName} workflow images in devmode profile. If empty, the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} uses the default Apache community image based on the current {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} version.
```

|`builderConfigMapName`
|`logic-operator-rhel8-builder-config`

> |The default name of the builder configMap in the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} namespace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|The default name of the builder config map in the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} namespace.
```

|`postgreSQLPersistenceExtensions`
|next column

> |Quarkus extensions required for workflows persistence. These extensions are used by the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} builder in cases where the workflow being built has configured postgresql persistence.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|Quarkus extensions required for workflows persistence. These extensions are used by the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} builder in cases where the workflow being built has configured PostgreSQL persistence.
```

|`kogitoEventsGrouping`
|`true`

> |When it is `true`, it configures every workflow deployment with the `gitops` or `preview` profiles, to send accumulated workflow status change events to the Data Index, reducing the number of produced events. You can set the value to `false` to send individual events.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|When set to `true`, configures every workflow deployment with the `gitops` or `preview` profiles to send accumulated workflow status change events to the data index, reducing the number of produced events. You can set the value to `false` to send individual events.
```

|`kogitoEventsGroupingBinary`
|`true`

> |When it is `true`, the accumulated workflow status change events are sent in binary mode, reducing the size of the produced events. You can set the value to `false` to send plain json events.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|When set to `true`, the accumulated workflow status change events are sent in binary mode, reducing the size of the produced events. You can set the value to `false` to send plain JSON events.
```

|`kogitoEventsGroupingCompress`
|`false`

> |When it is `true`, the accumulated workflow status change events, if sent in binary mode, are zipped at the cost of some performance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|When set to `true`, the accumulated workflow status change events, if sent in binary mode, are zipped at the cost of some performance.
```

|===

> You can edit this by updating the `logic-operator-controllers-config` ConfigMap using the `oc` command-line tool.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can edit this by updating the `logic-operator-controllers-config` config map by using the `oc` command-line tool.
```

[id="serverless-logic-global-configuration-changes-impact_{context}"]
== Impact of global configuration changes

When you update the global configurations, the changes immediately affect only newly created resources. For example, if you change the `sonataFlowDevModeImageTag` property and already have a workflow deployed in dev mode, the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} does not roll out a new deployment with the updated image configuration. Only new deployments reflect the changes.

[id="serverless-logic-customizing-base-builder-image_{context}"]
== Customizing the base builder image

You can directly change the base builder image in the Dockerfile used by the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName}.

Additionally, you can specify the base builder image in the `SonataFlowPlatform` configuration within the current namespace. This ensures that the specified base image is used exclusively in the given namespace.

> .Example of `SonataFlowPlatform` with a custom base builder image:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Example of `SonataFlowPlatform` with a custom base builder image
```

Sorry I might have missed the `:` removal in the first review.

Author: Np! But thank you for catching this out :)

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: sonataflow.org/v1alpha08
kind: SonataFlowPlatform
metadata:
  name: sonataflow-platform
spec:
  build:
    config:
        baseImage: dev.local/my-workflow-builder:1.0.0
----

> Alternatively, you can also modify the base builder image in the global configuration ConfigMap as shown in the following example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can also modify the base builder image in the global configuration config map as shown in the following example:
```

> .Example of `ConfigMap` with a custom base builder image:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Example of `ConfigMap` with a custom base builder image
```

- Remove `:`

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
data:
  controllers_cfg.yaml: |
    sonataFlowBaseBuilderImageTag: dev.local/my-workflow-builder:1.0.0
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: logic-operator-rhel8-controllers-config
  namespace: openshift-serverless-logic
----

> When customizing the base builder image, the following order of precedence applies:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When customizing the base builder image, the following order of precedence is applicable:
```

1. The `SonataFlowPlatform` configuration in the current context.

> 2. The global configuration entry in the ConfigMap.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. The global configuration entry in `ConfigMap`.
```

OR "the `ConfigMap` object/CR"

> 2. The global configuration entry in `ConfigMap` CR.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. The global configuration entry in the `ConfigMap` resource.
```

Since custom rsource (CR) is not used anywhere.

> 3. The `FROM` clause in the Dockerfile within the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} namespace (`logic-operator-rhel8-builder-config` ConfigMap).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. The `FROM` clause in the Dockerfile within the {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} namespace, `logic-operator-rhel8-builder-config` config map.
```

> The entry in `SonataFlowPlatform` configuration will always override any other value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The entry in the `SonataFlowPlatform` configuration always overrides any other value.
```
